THIS IS A SUBSET OF THE ORIGINAL BODY DATASET!!!!

NAME: Exploring Relationships in Body Dimensions
TYPE: Observational
SIZE: 507 Observations, 17 Variables

DESCRIPTIVE ABSTRACT:

This dataset contains 13 body dimension measurements as well as age, 
weight, height, and gender on 507 individuals. The 247 men and 260 
women were primarily individuals in their twenties and thirties, with a 
scattering of older men and women, all exercising several hours a week.

SOURCE:

Measurements were initially taken by the first two authors - Grete 
Heinz and Louis J. Peterson - at San Jose State University and at the 
U.S. Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California. Later, 
measurements were taken at dozens of California health and fitness 
clubs by technicians under the supervision of one of these authors.

VARIABLE DESCRIPTIONS:

Columns     Variable

            Skeletal Measurements:

  1	    	Biacromial diameter (razmak izmeðu ramena) 
   
            Girth Measurements:

  2         Shoulder girth over deltoid muscles (opseg ramena)
  3			Chest girth, nipple line in males and just above breast 
            tissue in females, mid-expiration (opseg prsa)
  4   		Waist girth, narrowest part of torso below the rib cage, 
            average of contracted and relaxed position (opseg struka)
  5   		Navel (or "Abdominal") girth at umbilicus and iliac crest, 
            iliac crest as a landmark (opseg struka oko pupka)
  6   		Hip girth at level of bitrochanteric diameter (opseg bokova)
  7   		Thigh girth below gluteal fold, average of right and left 
            girths (opseg bedra)
  8   		Bicep girth, flexed, average of right and left girths (opseg bicepsa)
  9   		Forearm girth, extended, palm up, average of right and 
            left girths (opseg podlaktice)
  10   		Knee girth over patella, slightly flexed position, average 
            of right and left girths (opseg koljena ispod èašice)
  11   		Calf maximum girth, average of right and left girths (max. opseg lista)
  12   		Ankle minimum girth, average of right and left girths (min. opseg gležnja)
  13   		Wrist minimum girth, average of right and left girths (opseg zapešæa)

            Other Measurements:

  14    	Age (years)
  15    	Weight (kg)
  16    	Height (cm)
  17        Gender (1 - male, 0 - female)

The first 13 variables are all measured in centimeters (cm).


STORY BEHIND THE DATA:

The first two authors investigated the correspondence between frame 
size, girths, and weight of physically active young men and women, most 
of whom were within normal weight range. One goal of this investigation 
was to develop predictive techniques to assess the lean/fat body 
composition of individuals. 

PEDAGOGICAL NOTES:

These data can be used to provide statistics students practice in the art 
of data analysis. Such analyses range from simple descriptive displays 
to more complicated multivariate analyses such as multiple regression 
and discriminant analysis.

SUBMITTED BY:

Grete Heinz
24710 Upper Trail
Carmel, CA  93923
USA
goguh@aol.com

Louis J. Peterson
Department of Health Sciences
San José State University
One Washington Square
San José, California 95192
USA

Roger W. Johnson
Department of Mathematics and Computer Science
South Dakota School of Mines and Technology
501 East St. Joseph Street
Rapid City, South Dakota 57701
USA
Roger.Johnson@sdsmt.edu

Carter J. Kerk
Industrial Engineering Program
South Dakota School of Mines and Technology
501 East St. Joseph Street
Rapid City, South Dakota 57701
USA
Carter.Kerk@sdsmt.edu

--
